# Byrnes Lab Mission Statement

## Scientific Mission

The Byrnes lab is fundamentally about understanding the consequences of global change in our oceans. The oceans of the world have long provided humans with sustenance, climate regulation, beauty, and cultural heritage. We are in an undeniable period of rapid and long-lasting global change. We are witnessing rising sea levels, warming waters, overharvesting, rapid movement of non-native species, range expansions and local extinctions of many species, and more. **Here in the Byrnes lab, our mission is to discover and apply basic ecological principles to understand this rapidly changing ocean.** We use a wide variety of disciplinary approaches to achieve these aims, as the scholarship of ecological systems must embrace every tool at our disposal from field ecology to policy to statistics to sociology to applied mathematics to citizen science. We focus our work in kelp forests, salt marshes, and the rocky intertidal and subtidal as they provide a direct lens into the past and future of the waters of New England. 

## Mission as Part of the Life Scientific

We in the Byrnes lab have a responsibility to support those in science and the public at large who have been marginalized, denigrated, and non-represented in society broadly and the scientific community specifically.  We incorporate our core principles of Equity, Inclusion, Diversity, Integrity, and Respect into our every action.  The culture of our lab is defined by these core principles, and informs our conduct in the social, academic, and intellectual spheres. Specifically, we actively encourage and promote people of color, the LGBTQ+ community, people with disabilities, women, people of different ages and generations, and those in lower socioeconomic statuses to join this lab group as high school students, undergraduate students, graduate students, and postdoctoral scholars. Such aforementioned groups have historically not been allowed a seat at the table in both society and science, or once at the table, their voices were not heard or respected. It is our goal to change that history. Once joined, by maintaining our core principles, we always ensure that all voices in the Byrnes lab are heard, listened to, and respected by showing active listening and giving each the time needed to speak. It is past time that all humans be given the dignity and respect that they deserve in society and science.
